Release v2.5.2 Beta 1 (#617)
Chatterino/website: pages/changelog.mdx

import Head from "next/head";
import Nav from "../components/nav";
import Section from "../components/section";
import Figure from "../components/figure";
import FigureGroup from "../components/figure-group";
import Credit from "../components/credit";
import { discord } from "../links";

<Head>
  <title>Changelog - Chatterino</title>
</Head>

<Nav />

 <Section className="changelog px-16" prose>

# Chatterino Changelog

## 2.5.2 Beta 1 {#2.5.2}

### Added overlay window support {#2.5.2-overlay-window}

<div className="changelog-entry">

You can now press <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>ALT</kbd> + <kbd>N</kbd> to open an

> overlay window of your selected split.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
overlay window of your selected [split](https://wiki.chatterino.com/Glossary/).
```

<FigureGroup>
  <Figure src="./changelog/2.5.2/moderation-button-in-chat.png" width="300">
    Custom moderation actions in chat
  </Figure>
  <Figure src="./changelog/2.5.2/moderation-button-after-click.png" width="300">
    User timed out after clicking
  </Figure>
</FigureGroup>

<Credit author="Mm2PL" helper="nerixyz, pajlada" />

The `/ban`, `/timeout`, `/unban`, `/untimeout` commands now accept multiple channels if you want to easier wipe out cross-channel shenanigans.

Examples:

- Ban user in the chat you have selected: `/ban forsen`
- Ban user in a specific chat: `/ban --channel pajlada forsen`
- Ban user in two chat: `/ban --channel pajlada --channel nymn forsen`

Example command:

- Ban the user you right-clicked in the current channel + another channel: `/ban --channel {channel.name} --channel nymn {user.name}`

Example moderation button action:

- Ban the user in the current channel + another channel: `/ban --channel {channel.name} --channel nymn {user.name}`

<Credit author="pajlada" />

</div>

### User Card Pronouns {#2.5.2-pronouns}

<div className="changelog-entry">

You can now show a user's pronoun from [pr.alejo.io](https://pr.alejo.io) in their User Card.

> This feature can be enabled with the "Show user's pronouns in user card" setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature can be enabled with the `Show user's pronouns in user card` setting.
```

</div>

### Improved tab unread indicators {#2.5.2-tab-indicators}

<div className="changelog-entry">

If you have the same channel open in multiple tabs, "reading" the message in one tab marks the other tabs as unread.

<Credit author="hemirt" helper="nerixyz, pajlada" />

</div>

### Plugins alpha release {#2.5.2-plugins}

<div className="changelog-entry">

We are testing a plugin system in Chatterino. Plugins are disabled by default.
To enable them, open the settings, go to `Plugins` and check the `Enable
plugins` checkbox.

Plugin documentation can be found in [the Chatterino2 repo](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/blob/master/docs/wip-plugins.md).

The plugin system uses Lua with [sol2](https://github.com/ThePhD/sol2) by [ThePhD](https://github.com/ThePhD).

Got any ideas for what you'd like to be able to create with Plugins? Let us
know in [this discussion.](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/discussions/4999)

Have you started playing around with plugins and feel like something is
missing, or something is unergonomic? [Start a new discussion.](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/discussions/new?category=ideas)

> Have you questions about plugins? Ask in our <a href={discord}>Discord</a> or [start a new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Do you have questions about plugins? Ask in our <a href={discord}>Discord</a> or [start a new
```
This sounded weird to me, so I feel like this should be changed. I've also gathered a "second opinion":
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d2b1cb02-98fe-4512-bd80-77d37af9fdbd)

Reviewer 2: could just remove `you` from the original

firefox-developer-edition, firefox-beta, and firefox-nightly as
supported browsers.

<Credit author="Niller2005, teknsl" />

</div>

### Settings improvements {#2.5.2-settings-improvements}

<div className="changelog-entry">

- Dragging & dropping now shows a line indicator instead of rectangle while reordering entries in tables.
- Added some search tags for settings so it's easier to find them using search (e.g. "bttv" and "ffz" show all the BetterTTV and FrankerFaceZ settings.)

<Credit author="nerixyz, pajlada" />

</div>

### Improved link handling {#2.5.2-link-parsing}

<div className="changelog-entry">

More actual links are now parsed as links, and non-links-but-things-that-look-like-links no longer parse as links.

<Credit author="nerixyz" />

</div>

### Helix API emote loading {#2.5.2-helix-emotes}

<div className="changelog-entry">

We now use Twitch's Helix API to load the list of emotes you can post. This means we can now see most emotes you have access to, including event emotes.

<Credit author="nerixyz" helper="Felanbird, occluder, iProdigy, pajlada" />

</div>

### Removed beta IRC support {#2.5.2-bye-irc}

<div className="changelog-entry">

> If you were one of the 6 people using the IRC capability of Chatterino2, we have decided to no longer pursue this option - at least not in the way we did here. This release completely removes the IRC support. If you had IRC splits open before, they'll be replaced with empty splits with this release.

Reviewer: This is subjective. We don't know how many people used IRC - we never deprecated the feature (only a GitHub discussion was opened).

This should read more like "supporting IRC was a burden to maintain and [saw little adoption](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/discussions/5498)".

Author: Fixed in [`9cec01f` (#617)](https://github.com/Chatterino/website/pull/617/commits/9cec01f5e9d2c7b4922f3b3715dab3422ba35ee3)

<Credit author="pajlada" />

</div>

### Miscellaneous features {#2.5.2-miscellaneous-features}

<div className="changelog-entry">

- Chat popups now remember their last size. - Authored by @maliByatzes
- You can now use touchscreen gestures scroll in chat splits. - Authored by @camporter with help from @nerixyz @pajlada
- Made usernames clickable in more chat messages. - Authored by @jupjohn and @nerixyz with help from @pajlada
- Added the `--login <username>` CLI argument. This can be used to specify which account to start logged in as. - Authored by @lbrooney
- Initiating a reply will now show the message you're replying to, and the reply button has been made slightly prettier. - Authored by @dnsge and @nerixyz with help from @jupjohn and @pajlada
- Added `flags.action` filter variable, allowing you to filter on `/me` messages. - Authored by @Mm2PL

> - Improved subscription & resubscriptions messages when they are multi-month subs. - Authored by @iProdigy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved subscription & resubscription messages when they are multi-month subs. - Authored by @iProdigy
```

> - Chatlogs can now be organized by stream IDs rather than the current date. This makes it easier to log streams that consistently cross date boundaries. - Authored by @pajlada

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Chat logs can now be organized by stream IDs rather than the current date. This makes it easier to log streams that consistently cross date boundaries. - Authored by @pajlada
```

- The size of the emote popup is now saved, and it now reloads Twitch emotes as they appear. - Authored by @nerixyz
- Added a setting to suppress live notifications on startup. - Authored by @nerixyz
- Added a warning before you block a channel, ensuring you're aware of the consequences. - Authored by @nerixyz
- Moderators can now see when users are warned or when raids are started/cancelled. - Authored by @iProdigy
- The window layout settings file is now backed up like your other settings, in case of an unfortunate event. - Authored by @nerixyz

</div>

### Miscellaneous bugfixes {#2.5.2-miscellaneous-bugfixes}

<div className="changelog-entry">

> - Fixes an issue when double-click selecting outside of a message, multiline-rendering that start at a trailing space, and some RTL text quirks. - Authored by @nerixyz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixes an issue when double-click selecting outside of a message, multiline-rendering that starts at a trailing space, and some RTL text quirks. - Authored by @nerixyz
```
or `started` I guess but I don't really know what this change is

- Emote names are no longer duplicated when using smarter emote completion method. - Authored by @ilya-zlobintsev

> - Shutting down Chatterino2 is now done in a more clean manner, meaning there's less chance for file corruption due to an unclean exit. - Authored by @nerixyz and @pajlada

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shutting down Chatterino2 is now done in a more clean manner, meaning there's less chance for file corruption due to an unclean exit. If you experience crashes when closing Chatterino, please open an issue. - Authored by @nerixyz and @pajlada
```

- Fixed network requests timing out despite them not being in flight for that long, for Qt 6.3+ where we have the technology. - Authored by @pajlada
- You can now customize the appearance of the scrollbar & its thumb (the handle you can drag). Hiding the scrollbar thumb will disable mouse click & drag interactions in the scrollbar. - Authored by @pajlada

> - Fixed tab move animation occasionally failing to start after closing a tab. - Authored by @kornes with help from @nerixyz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed the animation for moving a tab occasionally failing to display after closing a tab. - Authored by @kornes with help from @nerixyz
```

- Fixed message history occasionally not loading after a sleep. - Authored by @nerixyz
- Fixed windows on Windows not saving correctly when snapping them to the edges. Authored by @nerixyz with help from @8thony
- Fixed user info card popups adding duplicate line to log files. - Authored by @pajlada
- Fixed tooltips and input completion popups not working after moving a split. - Authored by @pajlada and @nerixyz
- Fixed `/clearmessages` not working with more than one window. - Authored by @nerixyz
- Fixed splits staying paused after unfocusing Chatterino in certain configurations. - Authored by @Mm2PL and @nerixyz
- Fixed account switch not being saved if no other settings were changed. - Authored by @pajlada
- Fixed a crash that could occur when handling the quick switcher popup really quickly. - Authored by @pajlada
- Fixed 7TV badges being inadvertently animated. - Authored by @pajlada
- Fixed some tooltips not being readable. - Authored by @pajlada
- Fixed log files being locked longer than needed. - Authored by @nerixyz with help from @kornes
- Fixed global badges not showing in anonymous mode. - Authored by @nerixyz

> - Fixed incorrect message being disabled in some cases upon approving or denying an automod caught message. - Authored by @iProdigy with help from @jupjohn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed incorrect message being disabled in some cases upon approving or denying a message caught by AutoMod. - Authored by @iProdigy with help from @jupjohn
```

Authored by @nerixyz and @pajlada

</div>

### Improved link handling

<div className="changelog-entry">

More actual links are now parsed as links, and non-links-but-things-that-look-like-links no longer parse as links.

Authored by @nerixyz

</div>

### Added multi-channel support for ban/timeout/untimeout/unban commands

<div className="changelog-entry">

The `/ban`, `/timeout`, `/unban`, `/untimeout` commands now accept multiple channels if you want to easier wipe out cross-channel shenanigans.

Examples:

- Ban user in the chat you have selected: `/ban forsen`
- Ban user in a specific chat: `/ban --channel pajlada forsen`
- Ban user in two chat: `/ban --channel pajlada --channel nymn forsen`

Example command:

- Ban the user you right-clicked in the current channel + another channel: `/ban --channel {channel.name} --channel nymn {user.name}`

Example moderation button action:

- Ban the user in the current channel + another channel: `/ban --channel {channel.name} --channel nymn {user.name}`

Authored by @pajlada

</div>

### Helix API emote loading

<div className="changelog-entry">

> We now use Twitch's Helix API to load the list of emote's you can post. This means we can now see most emotes you have access to, including event emotes.

Reviewer 4: Typo in "emote's".
```suggestion
We now use Twitch's Helix API to load the list of emotes you can post. This means we can now see most emotes you have access to, including event emotes.
```
